---
layout: post
title: "COMP1531 Reflections"
comments: true
categories: Computing
---

#### COMP1531 Reflection

Even though we did quite well academically, I thought it'd be good to think back on my experience and go over what I did well and what I could have improved for this course. There were definitely some major areas for improvement, particularly in the group project section of the course as this was one of the larger group projects I've been involved in so far, which is why I think reflection and active improvement are essential to building and growing my skills in this respect.

For context, COMP1531 is the first software engineering "groupwork" course in UNSW's computing curriculum, and introduces tools and frameworks like Git, Agile, Testing, and the Software Development Life Cycle. 

For me, it was my first time being able to "lead" a software team as I was the only one with previous experience with web development, which meant I was able to outline a lot of the technical design. This meant I ended up focusing a lot more on the project management side of the course, and get the chance to spend a lot more time developing my leadership and collaboration skills.

---

#### Iteration 1

Iteration 1 was a fairly simple start to the project - building a simple Python backend to get people familiar with GitLab, Python, and building from specifications and requirements. 

My first major mistake for this project was not setting expectations early, and took it for granted that people would have prior experience or even be interested and invested in the content. It was only about 8 out of 10 weeks in that I found out that two of our group members were engineering students taking the subject as an "easy" elective, and a third was taking an internship alongside the course. I had a high school friend taking the course with me, but it was a shock how large the discrencies in expectations were, with some members aiming for only a Credit or Pass, while me and my friend were aiming for High Distinctions.

In terms one project management, one thing I did do well at the beginning was convincing the group to centralise everything in Microsoft Teams. This would save us later on in the course when we needed to produce documentation and evidence of collaboration, as well as provide transparency to all of our decisions. 

Overall, not setting expectations was my main regret for this iteration - the majority of other issues such as poor quality code or communication difficulties all stemmed from this mistake.

---

#### Iteration 2

Iteration 2 upped the complexity, changing the requirements of the project and requiring us to use Flask to build an HTTP interface as essentially a REST API. I had started to take on a lead role due to my familiarity with the stack and focused on the interesting technical elements rather the interpersonal elements - another major misstep. As a computer science student, I'm often tempted to go for the most technically interesting problems solve or projects to get involved in to make the most out of my time at uni, but I also need to take a step back and see how everything fits into the big picture.

In this case, I didn't take enough time out to check in and support the rest of the team - I didn't see that several people were struggling despite their assurances that they were "doing fine" or that they "just needed some more time" in group meetings. Although I ended up architecting a really cool wrapper to interface our backend which also greatly simplified our testing (which the tutor was impressed by!), it ended up increasing confusion with some of the other team members and we ended up having to rewrite much of their code at the last minute.

However, I also got a lot of useful and actionable feedback from raising these issues. First of, people thought there wasn't enough communication - often, one member would be waiting on someone else's feature or be confused about what someone else was working on. This led to confusion about their own work, and how it fit into the project or was relevant. This also led to a lack of accountability - without knowing what other people were doing, they felt more inclined to put the course off and work on other things, which led to last minute rushes and emergency patches the night before the deadline as integration tests failed and new modules were hastily written and pushed in for the first time.

Overall, this iteration was the most stressful, but also a really great learning opportunity on how to improve.

---

#### Iteration 3

Iteration 3 again upped the complexity, introducing a frontend to integrate and more advanced functionality which built on our existing codebase. This iteration challenged me technically, but also gave me the chance to put much of the iteration 2 feedback into practice. One of the first things I did was lead a refactor of the project. Much of the codebase was spagetti from last minute patches, and we had accumulated an unexpectedly large amount of technical debt over the short 10 week project. Removing redudant code and making much heavier use of helpers and modularisation were crucial for readability and some of the more complex features. I would have loved to used some object oriented programming techniques such as SOLID in this iteration, but there simply wasn't the time as my other courses were starting to ramp up at this point too.

While we were working on the refactor and integration of the frontend, I decided to introduce milestones and mandatory weekly check ins. Before, we had done standups and weekly meetings but we often didn't have full attendance. I also asked everyone if they had any areas they wanted to work on, and assigned tasks according to preferences, difficulty, and what people were aiming for. I realised that assigning hard or crucial work to a member aiming for a credit would result in delayed or subpar code, which would be a blocker for the rest of the team, and that assigning a heavier workload to someone aiming for an HD made sense since they could take more ownership of the project and benefit from some positive scaling. I also decided to post weekly progress updates listing the tasks, their assignees, summarising any changes, and everyone's progress on tasks to improve communication and make sure it was clear what people were responsible for. 

Surprisingly, these changes were very effective - we got all of our main tasks done a week before the deadline, and we caught several issues before the milestone, allowing us to reassign tasks to other people and ease the workload on struggling members. Personally, I think I spent more time doing documentation and admin work this project than actual coding, but it's been amazing to see how much of a difference good communication makes for a team.

On the technical side, better delegation also meant I would try for some bonus marks with extension features. One of the things I've been wanting to do for a while now is deploy a project to the cloud so that's publically accessible - this was a great success, and I learnt a lot about cloud and a different facet of computing that I haven't really experienced before. 

---

#### Overview

Overall, I learned a lot about both technical software engineering and teamwork from this project, and coming out with a mark of 49/50 was a pleasent surprise, espcially concidering that we had a lot of issues near the beginging and middle of the project. The project might be over, but the lessons I've learned will stay, and I'm looking forward to applying them in the future. A good team is worth it's weight in gold, and I'm going to keep that in mind as I tackle more projects in the future.
