---
layout: post
title: "Amazon AWS ECIP Program"
comments: true
categories: Careers
---

## My notes from the program

---

#### Amazon Culture


[It's always Day 1]()

"It's always Day 1" is the idea that you should never become complacent at what you do, and forms up a large aspect of the culture and operating model at Amazon of being "customer first". Despite Amazon being such a massive company, they seem to be focused on maintaining large numbers of very autonomous teams to try and emulate a startup environment 

>"What does Day 2 look like? Day 2 is stasis. Followed by irrelevance. Followed by excruciating, painful decline. Followed by death. And that is why it is always Day 1."

- Making Decisions at speed
    - 2 Pizza Teams; teams of <10, can be fed with 2 pizzas, fosters ownership, fast moving
    - One-way/two-way decisions; make reversible decisions quickly, spend time on irreversible ones
    - 70% information; don't wait until you know everything to make a decision, particularly 2 way ones

>If you’re not watchful, the process can become the thing... You stop looking at outcomes and just make sure you’re doing the process right. The process is not the thing. It’s always worth asking, do we own the process or does the process own us? In a Day 2 company, you might find it’s the second.”

- Beware of optimizing the process rather than ensuring it is still driving the right results
- Experiement constantly to develop new capabilities and tooling
- Focus on long term good and sustainability rather than short term goals
- Make high quality, high velocity decisions
- Focus on the customer

[Leadership Principles](https://aws.amazon.com/executive-insights/content/leading-and-innovating-with-leadership-principles/)
- Amazon’s mission is to be Earth’s most customer-centric company
- "Start with the customer and work backwards"


---

#### AWS Services

>Cloud Concepts
>
>// TODO

---

#### The Program

I'm recently took part in Amazon's Early Careers Innovation Program (ECIP), run by the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Team as an introduction to AWS and the cloud. The program had 3 sessions per week, and aims to introduce AWS and cloud computing to both technical and non-technical uni students. From what I can tell, the makeup of the cohort seems to be mostly infosys students with some business and some technical majors, which is an interesting composition. 

<br>

#### Week 1

The first week started off with introductions to the program and hosts, where we learnt on a high level the training and work involved with working at AWS. We were also introduced some Amazon retail initiatives which led into the case study, to act as cloud consultants for an environmentally focused retail organisation to advise on a migration to a cloud. We were given a detailed slide deck of their existing infrastructure and concerns, as well as some statistics on the market and organisational values.

This definitely seemed to be a bit geared towards business and consulting, as the presenters were mainly AWS Solutions Architects, which from my understanding seem to be a mixed consulting/technical role of essentially being able to mix and match AWS solutions to fit an organisation's needs, then being able to justify those recommendations with quantiative data on revenue or business impact and so on.

We also had a workshop on using AWS Cloud, specifically, on setting up a web server using an EC2 instance. This was my faviourte part of the week, as we were able to get hands on with setting up a web server and on discussing the technical capacbilities of an EC2 instance, including considerations like vertical and horizontal scaling. From my current perspective, I can definately see the appeal of using AWS for many companies for hosting as EC2s and S3 buckets are quite versitile and reletively affortable.

Overall, my impression from the first week is that AWS has good training in the form of Tech U and the skills you learn as a solutions architect would be very valuable in any other technology role. As always, there are the standard perks of working at a big company including being able to move teams, get support, change offices, and so on. The AWS itself is pretty good from what I've learned so far, and I can definately see myself using services like EC2 and S3 buckets in the future. We also learned about Amazon's culture and leadership principles and the "Day 1" management philosophy which are apprently a very big part of the hiring process. While I'm not as interested in the business side of things, I think the technical workshops could be quite interesting.

<br>

#### Week 2

The second week started off with a panel Q&A with some Amazon hiring managers as well as a session on Amazon's values and "culture of innovation". The main impression I got was that AWS was very large, and so it was often difficult for people to give generalisations on what they do and also difficult to give specifics due to how broad the offerings are and probably client confidentiality concerns. Most of the roles we were exposed to seemed to be business, sales, or consulting roles - solutions architects are responsible for the initial sales and adoption of cloud, then technical support is responsible for post sales assistance and consulting. I'm guessing that these are probably the primary roles in Australia and New Zealand, and Software Development roles are much rarer. 

We also had a workshop on Amazon Lex, which walked though creating and integrating chatbots on AWS. I can see the benefits of this for businesses but I'm personally not a fun of chatbots. Mostly, I can't really think of any reason I would use this except maybe in a super specific personal project and even then, I would probably try to make one from scratch and host it locally, although I could be wrong. We also got some insights into basic cloud concepts like "Serverless" and some of the other services that AWS provides.

Overall, this week was kind of boring but I do think it was helpful to get an insight into the types of roles and services at AWS and how Amazon approaches things.

<br>

#### Weeks 3 & 4

I couldn't attend most of the sessions for week 3 as I was sick, and week 4 consisted of presentations which was unfortunate. However, I still learned a lot about how Amazon operates and the sorts of opportunities avaliable with AWS and some technical fundamentals behind the cloud.

<br><br><br>

