---
layout: post
title: "DroneSec Certification"
comments: true
---

A few days after the Privasec Hackcelerator Program, I received an email from DroneSec to redeem a copy of their ﻿Drone Security Course. DroneSec had given a guest lecture during the program, and so being able to take the course and learn more was an unexpected bonus to the program.

The bundle came with three courses, covering Security, Regulations, and SecOps (Offence & Defence), as well as a submission attempt for their Drone Security Operations Certificate (DSOC).

---

### The Course

The course itself was fairly straightforward - it consisted of self paced video lectures and resources covering drones and counter-drone systems, case studies of drone threats and incidents, and different methodologies for modelling, collecting, and using intelligence to mitgate risks. The course seemed to focus a lot of defence, which I think makes it especially relevant to anyone working in the GRC side of security, although I think the content is still useful to anyone who works or is interested in security.

While I would have enjoyed a bit more of a foray into the technical side of drone security, the course was still very interesting and practical, particularly given it was entirely online. I think the main benefit I recieved was that it changed my perspective of how drones can be used as an attacker and opened up some interesting idea about how I might utlise drones to defend or attack an objective.

One of the things I think is great about security is how often you can have your perspective challenged, and this course definately did that for me. From reconaissance of farm raids to corporate espionage of hedge funds, the case studies were wild and really highlighted the versatility of drones to any red team or attacker, and the criticality of having mitigations in place as a defender. Having access to past DroneSec Notify intelligence reports was also really helpful to see how a professional company compiles and presents intelligence to clients.

On a more practical side, learning techniques on how to perform OSINT and conduct threat modelling was definately the most useful and immediately application part of the course for me, which was also the main skill tested in the assignments. Small things like setting up Google Alerts for keywords of interest (I've since setup alerts to manage my digital footprint) and creating threat profiles for use in threat assessments are useful to anyone, and a great way to practice research skills as well as gain a better understanding of the current intelligence landscape.

---

### Summary

Overall, I really enjoyed the course and the chance to earn my DSOC. I've since submitted my assignments and am waiting on the results. While this course won't give you the knowledge on the more offensive aspects of hacking drones, it's still a very solid introduction to thinking about security and threat modelling from the perspective of drones.